15.4  Newton's law of cooling {#sec93 .section}
-----------------------------

Newton's law of cooling asserts that the temperature rate of change for
an object is proportional to the difference in temperature between the
object and the surrounding environment:

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
|   ------------------------------- |  = −[r]{style="font-style:italic" |
| --                                | } ([T]{style="font-style:italic"} |
|    [dT]{style="font-style:italic" |  − [T]{style="font-style:italic"} |
| }                                 | ~[env]{style="font-style:italic"} |
|    [dt]{style="font-style:italic" | ~)                                |
| }                                 |                                   |
|   ------------------------------- |                                   |
| --                                |                                   |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

where [T]{style="font-style:italic"}, the temperature of the object, is
a function of time, [t]{style="font-style:italic"};
[T]{style="font-style:italic"}~[env]{style="font-style:italic"}~ is the
temperature of the environment, and [r]{style="font-style:italic"} is a
constant that characterizes how quickly heat is transferred between the
system and the environment.

Newton's so-called "law\" is really a model in the sense that it is
approximately true in some conditions, only roughly true in others, and
not at all true in others.

For example, if the primary mechanism of heat transfer is conduction,
Newton's law is "true\", which is to say that
[r]{style="font-style:italic"} is constant over a wide range of
temperatures. And sometimes we can estimate
[r]{style="font-style:italic"} based on the material properties and
shape of the object.

When convection contributes a non-negligible fraction of heat transfer,
[r]{style="font-style:italic"} depends on temperature, but Newton's law
is often accurate enough, at least over a narrow range of temperatures.
In this case [r]{style="font-style:italic"} usually has to be estimated
experimentally, since it depends on details of surface shape, air flow,
evaporation, etc.

When radiation makes up a substantial part of heat transfer, Newton's
law is not a good model at all. This is the case for objects in space or
in a vacuum, and for objects at high temperatures (more than a few
hundred degrees Celsius, say).

[]{#hevea_default378}

However, for a situation like the coffee cooling problem, we expect
Newton's model to be quite good.

