17.1  The glucose-insulin system {#sec102 .section}
--------------------------------

[Glucose]{style="font-weight:bold"} is a form of sugar that circulates
in the blood of animals; it is used as fuel for muscles, the brain, and
other organs. The concentration of blood sugar is controlled by the
hormone system, and especially by [insulin]{style="font-weight:bold"},
which is produced by the pancreas and has the effect of reducing blood
sugar.

[]{#hevea_default411}

In people with normal pancreatic function, the hormone system maintains
[homeostasis]{style="font-weight:bold"}; that is, it keeps the
concentration of blood sugar in a range that is neither too high or too
low.

But if the pancreas does not produce enough insulin, or if the cells
that should respond to insulin become insensitive, blood sugar can
become elevated, a condition called
[hyperglycemia]{style="font-weight:bold"}. Long term, severe
hyperglycemia is the defining symptom of [diabetes
mellitus]{style="font-weight:bold"}, a serious disease that affects
almost 10% of the population in the U.S. (see
[[https://modsimpy.com/cdc]{style="font-family:monospace"}](https://modsimpy.com/cdc)).

[]{#hevea_default412} []{#hevea_default413}

One of the most-used tests for hyperglycemia and diabetes is the
frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test (FSIGT), in which
glucose is injected into the blood stream of a fasting subject (someone
who has not eaten recently); then blood samples are collected at
intervals of 2--10 minutes for 3 hours. The samples are analyzed to
measure the concentrations of glucose and insulin.

[]{#hevea_default414}

By analyzing these measurements, we can estimate several parameters of
the subject's response; the most important is a parameter denoted
[S]{style="font-style:italic"}~[I]{style="font-style:italic"}~, which
quantifies the effect of insulin on the rate of reduction in blood
sugar.

